WEEK-01
Lecture-1.2  JS Foundation

Why languages?
Interpreted vs compiled languages
Why JS >> Other languages in some use-cases
Strict vs dynamic languages
Single threaded nature of JS
Simple primitives in JS (number, strings, booleans)
Complex primitives in JS (arrays, objects)-non-primitives/reference types
Functions in Javascript
Practise problem solving


Why Languages?
In our computer, theres a resistor and in which capacitor is installed(hardwares)-computer electronics-on motherboard-there are small outgrowth types circles - micro chips
All electronic devices understand binary lang - 0 & 1
To communicate with computer, we can't write 0 & 1 in words or sentences. To get computers understand our instructions, languages were introduced, like java, C++, python, JavaScript etc.
We need a translator-that is known as compiler or/n Interpreter in computer world.These translators translate human-understanding languages to machine code (01010011 etc.)
Computers do not understand human language, so people use programming languages to translate directions into binary code that computer devices can follow as apps, websites, and software programs. Coding plays a crucial role in our increasingly digital world. Many aspects of modern life rely on coding. 
Why SSDs and RAM aren't the same.
https://www.tiktok.com/@philipfinch808/video/7556126870186593550

Our all programs in computer are placed/stored in SSD(hard drive) and when we d-click on it, it opens and converted to machine-code on RAM.
A program can never execute on SSD as it is slow as compared to RAM- RAM is used to execute programs - .exe files

SSD has large memory and RAM has low memory.
SSD is used to store data of programs and  RAM to execute it.
SSD-> 1TB
RAM -> 8GB

15:15 : VLC media player code is open-source and is present on github.

1-so languages are used to write applications.
2- deveopers do write high-level code in these languages, to make them understandable to humans, 
3- every language has a compiler which converts the code of the language to 01-machine language

computeer Languages (C++, Python, Js,Ruby, etc.,)--------->Compiler/Interpreter ---------> 01010001101-------> SSD/RAM(computer)

18:26
Difference between Interpreter and Compiler:
compile-based code:
3-step process
step-1 write code
step 2 compile it
step-3 run it to execute in RAM
(Compiler converts language to ML at a time and then executes it)
Compiler makes a new file in your folder structure to contain ML-code
interpreter-based code:  like JS, Python
converts into ML line by line 
and executes at that time, no need to create an ML-code file
It runs directly after interpreting  - till 23:36

Compiled Languages
1-First nedd to compile then to run
// This file contains notes related to web development, specifically from a 36-week remote job course.
// The notes mention that code usually doesn't compile if there's an error.
2- Usually don't compile, if there's an error in the code
3- Examples C++,Java,Rust,Golang
4-Hard to learn

Interpreted Languages
1- Usually go line by line
2- can run partially if error is there in the code
3-Example JS, Python
4-Easy to learn

Video#3
Next video continued the topic till 6:50
At 7:15 Why JavaScrip is better to learn than other languages?
- Browsers can easily understand JS for the js-engines they have,
- Js can be used in both frontend and backend side(thanks to Nodejs)
- Js can be widely used in web as well as android apps development(React Native).
- (Electron.js is a framework used for building cross-platform for desktop development-No need to create separate applications for each operating system like Windows, macOS, and Linux )
- An imp Interview question: Can frontend be written in other languages also?
 Other languages can also be used for frontend (browsers)
 e.g.,
Figma header (In Reactjs)
Figma screen(C++)

Frontend can be written in any computer language- that language needed to be compiled with assembly language - web assembly which browser can understand. Compile it with web assembly to be understandable by browser.
Summary:
Our browser directly understands html,css and JS. But
where speed is required, do write code in C++, compile it with web assembly to get browser understand it to run on frontend.
C++ is near to hardware so its speed is faster than other languages.
C++ is mid-level language.

14:53  Static and Dynamic (Strict vs loose) languages
C++ is strict one
JS is loosely type.
TS makes JS strict 
TS tranpiles into JS code to run.It does not run directly.

19:25 Single-Threaded Nature of JS

A language can be run on multiple cores in a CPU- But Js can only run on a single core of CPU-it uses one of cores at a time. This is single thresded-considered to be bad for scalable systems.
There is a way to make it use all cores of your machine - cluster module in JS - HOMEWORK (to know about it)
## ASSIGMENT

- What is cluster module in js



29:04 JAVASCRIPT-
 Variables - declared with let, const and var
 Data Types - strings, numbers, booleans
 typeof - to know the type of Variables

 Reference types of Data-Types-Array
(Non-primitive)
49:05  Functions-reusable performance in code

? short-keys
cntrl + ` (for terminal open n close)
cntrl + B (for side-panel open n close)
cntrl + f4 ( for above open/close files)























